                             PBPTEST Firmware
                              18 August 2019


This firmware is for testing and demonstrating the Pulse by Pulse method
of switching power supply control.  It runs on a Microchip PIC
dsPIC33EP32MC202, on the Embed Inc PBP board.

The input and output volages of a buck converter are measured each pulse,
then the switch turned on for the exact time to get the output voltage to
the regulation threshold, assuming the load is drawing the same current as
in the previous two cycles.  The computations can include solving a
quadratic, which requires calculating a square root.


Communication Protocol

  The processor can communicate with a host computer via UART.  This is
  for debugging, and control during testing of the concept.  3.3 V power,
  ground, and the 0-3.3 V UART signals are on a 4-pin connector labeled
  "Serial" on the PBP board.

  The protocol is two independent byte streams, one in each direction.
  Both ways, data is transferred in packets that start with a opcode byte,
  possibly followed by data bytes as defined for that opcode.  Packets
  from the host computer to this processor are referred to as "commands",
  with packets from the processor to the host computer as "responses",
  although they may not always be sent in direct response to commands.
  Commands and responses each have their own separate opcode space.

  Unless otherwise noted in the descriptions below, data values are
  unsigned integers, their size is 8 bits, and multi-byte fields are
  transmitted in most to least significant byte order.  Floating point
  values are in Embed Inc 32 bit dsPIC fast floating point format.

  In the command and response listings below, the name of each command or
  response is shown, followed by a colon, followed by the opcode value,
  followed by the description of any data values following the opcode
  byte.

  Commands

    NOP: 0

      This command is guaranteed to always be ignored.  Sending as many
      NOP commands as there are bytes in the longest possible command
      guarantees that the processor will interpret the next byte as the
      opcode of a new command.

    PING: 1

      Causes a PONG response to be sent.  This can be useful to verify the
      bi-directional communication channel.  It can also be used to verify
      that the processor has executed a previous sequence of commands that
      do not contain PING.

    FWINFO: 2

      Causes a FWINFO response to be sent, which reports the firmware
      version and other information.

    VSET: 3 mv

      Set the output voltage regulation point.  MV is 16 bits in units of
      millivolts.

    GVSET: 4

      Causes the VSET response to be sent, which indicates the output
      voltage set point.

    MVAL: 5

      Causes the MVAL response to be sent, which reports the latest
      measured analog values.

    ARM: 6

      Set up the trace mechanism so that the next trigger is valid.

    TRIG: 7

      Explicitly trigger the trace mechanism.  The trace mechanism will be
      armed first if necessary.

    TOFF: 8

      Disable the trace mechanism.  This is the reverse of arming it.

    BREAK: 9

      Sets the internal DBGBREAK flag.  This is intended for debugging.
      The DBGBREAK flag has no meaning during normal operation.

  Responses

    NOP: 0

      This is a valid response, but otherwise has no meaning.  The host
      must tolerate receiving a NOP at any time a response opcode byte is
      expected.

    PONG: 1

      Sent in response to the PING command only.

    FWINFO: 2 type version sequence

      Sent asynchronously once shortly after power up and then only in
      response to a FWINFO command.  TYPE is the firmware type ID, which
      is 43 for the PBPTEST firmware.  VERSION is the firmware version,
      and SEQUENCE is the unique build sequence number within that
      version.

      Multiple builds with the same version number may be done during
      development.  However, only one build per version is ever released.
      The details of released versions is given in a later section of this
      document.  The sequence number of the released build of each version
      is also given.  The action of firmware with other than the released
      sequence number for its version is undefined.  Such firmware should
      not be used in production.

    VSET: 3 mv

      Reports the output voltage setpoint.  MV is 16 bits in units of
      millivolts.

    MVAL: 4 an0 vin vout

      Reports the latest values of the measured analog signals.  All
      parameters are unsigned 16 bit integers.

      AN0 is the voltage on the AN0 analog input with 0-65535 representing
      the full scale A/D range, which is 0.0 to 2.5 volts on the PBP
      hardware.

      VIN is the input voltage in mV, and VOUT is the output voltage in
      mV.

    TRACE: 5 nsamp wordps trigofs word...word

      Data for a complete trace.  NSAMP is the 16 bit number of samples in
      the trace.  WORDPS is the number of words per sample.  TRIGOFS is
      the 16 bit offset of the trigger sample within the data.  0 means
      the trigger ocurred on the first sample, and NSAMP-1 indicates the
      last sample.  The special value NSAMP indicates this response is
      sending a dump of the trace buffer without a trigger having occured.

      There are exactly NSAMP*WORDPS 16 bit words following TRIGOFS.
      Samples are sent in buffer order, with the individual values within
      each sample in consecutive words.


Firmware Versions

  PBPTEST 1 seq 83, 26 May 2015

    The basic logic seems to work.  Implements commands NOP, PING, FWINFO,
    VSET, GVSET, MVAL, ARM, TRIG, and TOFF.  Implements responses NOP,
    PONG, FWINFO, VSET, MVAL, and TRACE.

    Currently, the measured output voltage resolution is too low.  Small
    amounts of noise, and even the jump between adjacent counts can cause
    the algorithm to over-react.

  PBPTEST 2 seq 11, 2 Oct 2016

    Adjusted to modified hardware with lower output voltage range.  This
    was done to get better output voltage resolution with the existing
    A/D.  Each A/D LSB is now 1 mV, which is the scale of the values used
    internally.  The output voltage range is now 0 to 4.095 volts.  The
    default output voltage was changed from 5.0 to 3.3 V.

  PBPTEST 3 seq 56, 18 Aug 2019

    Added host-triggered software-detected breakpoint capability.
    Breakpoint code is only included when the new DEBUG_BREAK build switch
    is enabled.

    Added new DEBUG_ICDRAM switch to build system.  This causes the memory
    for the ICD to be reserved, but without source changes included in the
    DEBUG_ICD switch. DEBUG_ICD forces DEBUG_ICDRAM.

    Added optional desired charge for next pulse computation for
    debugging.

    Moved into GIT repository, and updated to the latest build system.
    The source for this doc file is now in the GIT repository, not in the
    Embed DOC directory as before.

    Updated to some code found in olin/pbp, which seemed to be newer than
    that in Embed source/pbp.  It looks like this included one or two bug
    fixes in the pulse computation, and some changes to what gets traced.

    The released sequence of this version builds, but was not tested.
